# SF_FoundationTemplates.blend
This readme breaks down specifics about this file!

This is a collection of TEMPLATES that are the correct dimensions and orientations for the base foundation shapes found in Vanilla Satisfactory. As always they have been recreated from scratch but are only intended for use with Satisfactory. Of important note, these are not UV'd, or polished assets. When making your own refer to vanilla textures, there are mirrored UVs outside 0-1 and some trickery to reuse as many texels as possible. Check it out, and feel free to ask on the discord for info.

These TEMPLATE SHAPES are best used for adding new "building materials" to the ingame building material system (ficsit, concrete, asphalt, etc). It matters that you follow the template, for vanilla compatability. When the dimensions or orientations of your new building material don't match vanilla, then in game upgrade system will cause misalignments. Should you wish to use extraordinarily simple shapes for your blocks I recommend retexturing the Concrete set rather than exporting these meshes.

My best recommendation for workflow is to model the LODs and collisions into this file, use the appropriate unreal naming conventions like an LOD suffice and UCX prefix. Export each block with its collisions and LOD together and import each individual file. If you try to batch import through a single file then you get a lot more errors and problems updating a single mesh. Further, I recommend copy pasting concrete and using all its buildables, recipes, and descriptors so you don't loose your mind copy pasting information. But there will be a lot of tedious typing to attach the right objects together. Remember, the search function can search multiple things if you separate them with a space. That means "conc ramp 4" will find all the 8x4 concrete ramps only.
